ah yes february 14
2000 just a regular valentine's day some
flowers and some candy
the beginning of the new millennium and
a good day to make history
near shoemaker which stands for near
earth asteroid rendezvous spacecraft
launched in 1996 finally got a date with
asteroid 433 eros
it wasn't about swiping right but going
around eros
and completing the first soft landing on
an asteroid ever
near almost didn't make it there because
an engine misfire from 1998
brought it into the wrong trajectory and
it missed the target
yet engineers decided to let near do the
circle around
the sun for one more year and it
eventually made it
near shoemaker was created to find
target and stalk some smaller space
objects for around a year
and collect important data about them
this spacecraft got more
than 160 000 pictures of the asteroid
surface
which helped with research in the years
to come before then
some scientists took asteroids for just
some random flying piles
asteroid 433 arrows is indeed the
smallest body in our solar system
that got its own spacecraft orbiting it
at first sight this asteroid seems like
any other ordinary rock
coming from space potato shaped rotating
every five and a half hours
the size of two manhattans for
comparison
the biggest asteroid discovered is 383
miles across
while the smallest one is around six
feet wide
asteroids are actually some kind of
leftovers
that remain from the early stages of the
solar system
the sun as we know it began to get its
shape when compressed gases and atoms
started blending into a protostar
smaller grains of debris and dust around
the sun
formed into rocks and as they were
crashing into each other
ta-da they formed even bigger ones
objects that survived this chaotic and
messy party
are something we know today as planets
and moons
smaller bodies that couldn't get the
status of a planet
are called asteroids they're too small
to have any atmosphere
and their gravity isn't strong enough to
shape them into a sphere
so they don't have conditions to support
life
most of them end up somewhere in between
the orbits of jupiter and mars
and simply pass us by at a safe distance
but not eros
it became the first of near-earth
asteroids or
neas since 1975 the closest eros got to
earth was in 2012
around 16 and a half million miles away
which
makes it about 70 times the average
distance to the moon
it was discovered in 1898 and named
after the greek deity of
love you know eros the arrows that he
uses to make people fall in love with
each other
the mess he makes with broken hearts yep
in greek mythology
they call him cupid among many other
fascinating space discoveries
is nuclear pasta not like one my grandma
makes true but
not that bad either the recipe says you
should
one wait for a star to reach a certain
age when it's time for it to explode
um yeah and be patient because this
could take maybe around a billion years
two after the explosion collect its
leftover neutrons
and stir them until you get an extremely
dense stew
toss in some gravity to taste and the
last step
don't forget to bake it at 1 million
degrees fahrenheit
nuclear pasta is definitely one of the
weirdest meals on the universe menu
but also potentially the strongest
material out there
you would need 10 billion times bigger
force to shatter a place of nuclear
pasta
than to break steel scientists believe
this stuff is that strong
because it's incredibly dense kinda like
me
picture this 1.3 million earths
squeezed down and scrunched into the
size of toronto
omuamua is the first visitor that came
to our solar system
something that scientists have been
waiting for decades
this mysterious object was discovered in
october 2017
and is considered to be a piece of some
bigger body
formed outside the solar system and torn
apart during its journey
amumua which means scout in hawaiian
is an elongated body that resembles a
big space
cucumber definitely something unseen
before
it has non-gravitational acceleration
and no one actually knows how it moves
since there are no visible tails or any
outgassing signs
tabby's star is sure among the most
mysterious in the universe
it's a thousand light years away fifty
percent larger
and a lot hotter than the sun in 2015
scientists noted that tabby's star's
brightness would dim
down by as much as 22 percent big clouds
of dust could be guilty of that
but this star is too old to have
something like that
it's still not clear what could be
causing this massive dimming
nebula are huge clouds of dust gas
and plasma that never stop dishing out
surprises
they can change and take almost any
shape a fried egg
a space head a diamond ring a red square
nebula is one of the most
fascinating space objects there is no
explanation of how and where
it came from it's just a glowing and
almost perfectly symmetric box
in the middle of nowhere around 210
light years away from earth
there's the constellation called lyra
that's where the kepler 37 system is
kepler 37b is the smallest planet
in it with under one-third of the
earth's mass
it's just a little bit bigger than the
moon scientists believe this is an
airless and rocky planet similar to
mercury
moving to sagittarius b2 one of the
biggest molecular clouds of dust and gas
in our galaxy
is located around twenty five thousand
light years from earth
and close to the center of the milky way
galaxy
research has shown it contains more than
50 different molecules
and one is sugary stuff that tastes
similar to raspberries
ah discovering tasty planets space is
getting better and better
fermi bubbles are two mysterious
gigantic blobs
made of cosmic rays gas and dust found
in 2010
they hang around the central black hole
of our galaxy one on either side
bubbles expanded below and above our
galaxy over time
so they're now around fifty thousand
light years across
no one knows how they got there but one
theory says they're related to the same
black holes
that occurred about 6 million years ago
gleese 436b is one of the strangest
planets out there
it's extremely hot yet made of ice
this is a neptune size planet that needs
just
a little bit more than two days to
finish a full orbit around its parent
star
it's assumed its surface has a
temperature that goes up to 830 degrees
but the ice still doesn't melt since the
planet has
enormous gravity black holes are not
always super massive
igr rests in the constellation scorpius
and is only 3 to 10 times more massive
than the sun
which probably makes it the smallest
black hole discovered so far
ngc 3842 on the other hand
is something we picture when someone
mentions a black hole
it's in a different galaxy and about
2500 times as strong and massive
as the black hole in the center of the
milky way
ah venus the planet of superlatives
the closest planet to earth the hottest
surface reflective clouds that make it
the shiniest planet as seen from earth
the biggest number 1600 of volcanoes
when compared to other planets of our
solar system also
we're talking about the slowest spinning
body in our universe
that barely rotates at all it takes 243
earth days for venus to make one single
turn
this planet is so slow you can actually
walk faster before it makes a complete
turn
venus goes in the opposite direction
from earth which is why sunsets there
are in the east
while the sun rises on the west side 55
cancri
e is about twice the earth's size with
the temperatures of
up to 4 900 degrees perfect conditions
to turn carbon into diamonds yep
one third of this planet is covered in
carbon which makes this
diamond object one of the most expensive
planets
scientists who observe space changes in
antarctica
see neutrinos at least once a month
still
this one that struck our planet in 2017
was really special
it was the first one they could trace
the origins of
they discovered it took four billion
years for the neutrino to reach the
earth
it got to our planet from a massive
black hole at the center of a galaxy
that had been destroying all the matter
surrounding it
hey welcome to the new neighborhood
you